readme.md, before:

### This is the User Service ###

The user service is mainly used for four things. They include:

1) Register a new user
2) Delete a user
3) Get a user's details
4) Update a user

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
But before any of these happen, some things have to be put in place. 
1) Create a database 

2) Run the create_tables.py file to add tables. 
Do not forget to set the database details in environment variables. 
The data to set include:

a) host
b) database
c) user
d) password

Once you set the variables, run the file to create the tables. 

4) Initialize some data in the tables by running the init_tables.py
This file inserts the values for the countries and states tables respectively. 

5) Run the server.py file to start the server on port 50051

6) Run the client.py file to connect to the API gateway on port 5000

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Here is a full description of  how each of the method works:

1) REGISTER A NEW USER
This is a POST Request
The path is - http://127.0.0.1:5000/users/register
To register a new user, you need to fill in the following details in a form field. 

a) first_name
b) last_name
c) user_name
d) email
e) password
f) phone_number
g) date_of_birth . The format is: 'YYYY-MM-DD'
h) state_id . Can range from 1 to 37

Here is a sample request:
first_name: Emmanuel
last_name: Oyedeji
user_name: Emmapopo
email: emmanueloyedeji20@yahoo.com
password: popo1234
phone_number: 2348166321187
date_of_birth: 1999-11-14
state_id: 1

Based on this request, there are three possible responses:

{"status": "success"} - if the data has been successfully stored in the database
{"status": "You have to be over 18 years to register"} - if the user is under 18 years
{"status": "failed"} - if there is an error processing the input fields


2) DELETE A USER
This is a DELETE Request
The path is http://127.0.0.1:5000/users/delete

To delete a user, you need to supply only the user_id

Sample request:
user_id: 1 - means delete user with id of 1

Sample responses:
Two types of responses are possible:
{"status": "success"} - if the user has been successfully deleted
{"status": "failed"} - if deleting the user wasn't successful


3) GET USER DETAILS
This is a GET request
The path is http://127.0.0.1:5000/users/<id>   ; where id is the user_id

To get a user, you only need to supply the user_id

Sample request:
user_id: 1 - means get user with id of 1
http://127.0.0.1:5000/users/1

Sample response:
This request returns all the details of the user including:

a) id
b) first_name
c) last_name
d) user_name
e) email
f) password
g) phone_number
h) date_of_birth . The format is: 'YYYY-MM-DD'
i) state_id . Can range from 1 to 37

Here's what one looks like:
{
"id": "d3f76674-731d-493a-8e69-d6d656602ef2",
"firstName": "Emmanuel",
"lastName": "Aluko",
"userName": "Aluko123",
"email": "aluko1192@gmail.com",
"password": "Abayomi20",
"phoneNumber": "08166321187",
"dateOfBirth": "1997-11-14T00:00:00Z",
"stateId": 12
}


4) UPDATE USER DETAILS
This is a POST REQUEST

The path is http://127.0.0.1:5000/users/update

You then need to supply the id in the form field. 

Here are the other fields that may be updated:

a) first_name 
b) last_name 
c) password 
d) phone_number
e) state_id 

A sample request will be:

id: "4be5ccf3-fbd4-441d-b7ff-c4a9f406274e"
first_name: "Popo"
last_name: "Aluko"
state_id: 15

In this case, all other fields are updated except the password and phone_number

Sample response
If the update is successful, it returns:
{
"status": "user update successful"
}

If the update isn't successful, it returns:
{
"status": "user update failed"
}

Commit message:

updated readme.md to include how to run migration files

readme.md, after:

### This is the User Service ###

The user service is mainly used for four things. They include:

1) Register a new user
2) Delete a user
3) Get a user's details
4) Update a user

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
But before any of these happen, some things have to be put in place. 
1) Create a database 

2) Run the the yoyo migration files. Here are the Command Line Usage to note:

a) To start a new migration:
yoyo new ./migrations -m "Add column to foo"

b) To apply a migration:
yoyo apply --database postgresql://scott:tiger@localhost/db ./migrations

c) To rollback a migration:
yoyo rollback --database postgresql://scott:tiger@localhost/db ./migrations

d) To list available migrations:
yoyo apply --database postgresql://scott:tiger@localhost/db ./migrations

3) Run the server.py file to start the server on port 50051

4) Run the client.py file to connect to the API gateway on port 5000

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Here is a full description of  how each of the method works:

1) REGISTER A NEW USER
This is a POST Request
The path is - http://127.0.0.1:5000/users/register
To register a new user, you need to fill in the following details in a form field. 

a) first_name
b) last_name
c) user_name
d) email
e) password
f) phone_number
g) date_of_birth . The format is: 'YYYY-MM-DD'
h) state_id . Can range from 1 to 37

Here is a sample request:
first_name: Emmanuel
last_name: Oyedeji
user_name: Emmapopo
email: emmanueloyedeji20@yahoo.com
password: popo1234
phone_number: 2348166321187
date_of_birth: 1999-11-14
state_id: 1

Based on this request, there are three possible responses:

{"status": "success"} - if the data has been successfully stored in the database
{"status": "You have to be over 18 years to register"} - if the user is under 18 years
{"status": "failed"} - if there is an error processing the input fields


2) DELETE A USER
This is a DELETE Request
The path is http://127.0.0.1:5000/users/delete

To delete a user, you need to supply only the user_id

Sample request:
user_id: 1 - means delete user with id of 1

Sample responses:
Two types of responses are possible:
{"status": "success"} - if the user has been successfully deleted
{"status": "failed"} - if deleting the user wasn't successful


3) GET USER DETAILS
This is a GET request
The path is http://127.0.0.1:5000/users/<id>   ; where id is the user_id

To get a user, you only need to supply the user_id

Sample request:
user_id: 1 - means get user with id of 1
http://127.0.0.1:5000/users/1

Sample response:
This request returns all the details of the user including:

a) id
b) first_name
c) last_name
d) user_name
e) email
f) password
g) phone_number
h) date_of_birth . The format is: 'YYYY-MM-DD'
i) state_id . Can range from 1 to 37

Here's what one looks like:
{
"id": "d3f76674-731d-493a-8e69-d6d656602ef2",
"firstName": "Emmanuel",
"lastName": "Aluko",
"userName": "Aluko123",
"email": "aluko1192@gmail.com",
"password": "Abayomi20",
"phoneNumber": "08166321187",
"dateOfBirth": "1997-11-14T00:00:00Z",
"stateId": 12
}


4) UPDATE USER DETAILS
This is a POST REQUEST

The path is http://127.0.0.1:5000/users/update

You then need to supply the id in the form field. 

Here are the other fields that may be updated:

a) first_name 
b) last_name 
c) password 
d) phone_number
e) state_id 

A sample request will be:

id: "4be5ccf3-fbd4-441d-b7ff-c4a9f406274e"
first_name: "Popo"
last_name: "Aluko"
state_id: 15

In this case, all other fields are updated except the password and phone_number

Sample response
If the update is successful, it returns:
{
"status": "user update successful"
}

If the update isn't successful, it returns:
{
"status": "user update failed"
}
